## Process lifecycle
 The andoird system attempts to keep an application process around for as long as possible but eventually will need to remove old processes when memory runs low. As described in Activity lifecycle, the decision about which process to remove is tied to the state of the user's interaction. In general, there are four states a process can be in based on the activites running in it, listed here in order or impmortance. The system will kill less important processes before it resorts to killing more important processes.
 
 1) The foreground activity (activity at the top of the screen) is considered the most important. Its process will only be killed as a last resort, if it uses more memory than is available on the device. Generally at this point the device has reached a memory paging state, so this is required in order to keep the user interface responsive. 
 
 2) A visble activity(an activity that is visble to the user but no in the foreground, such as one sitting behind a foreground dialog or next to other activites in multi-window mode) is considered extremely important and will not be killed unless that is required to keep the foreground activity running.
 
 3) A background activity (an activity that is not visible to the user and has been stopped) is no longer critical, so the sytem may safely kill its process to reclaim memory for other foreground or visible processes. If a process is killed, when the user navigates back to the activity its onCreate(bundle) method will be called with the savedIstance State it had previously supplied in onSaveInstanceState(Bundle) so that it can restart itself in the same state as the user last left it. 
 
 4) An empty process is one hosting no activites or other application components(such as service or BroadcastReceiver classes). These are killled very quickly by the system as memory becomes low. For this reason, any background operation you do outside of an activity must be executed in the context of an activity BroadcastReceiver or Service to ensure that the system knows it needs to keep your process around. 
 
Sometimes an activity may need to do a long-running operation that exists independently of the activity lifecycle itself. An exmaple may be a camera application that allows you to upload a picture to a website. The upload may take a long time, and the appication should allow the user to leave the application while it is executing. To accomplish this, your Activity should start a service in which the upload takes place. this allows the system to properly priortize your process for the duration of the upload, independent of whether the original activity is paused, stopped or finsished. 
