Base interface for a remoable object, the core part of a lightweight remote procedure call mechanism designed for high performacne when performing in-porcess and cross-process calls.  The interface describes teh abastract protocol for interacting with a remotable object. Do not implememnt this interface firectly, instead extend from Binder. 

The key IBinder API is transact() matched by Binder#onTransact. These methods allow you to send a call to an IBinder object and receive a call coming in to a Binder object, respectively. This transaction API is synhronous, such that a call to transact9) does not return until the target has returned from Binder#onTransact this is the expected behavior when calling an object that exists in the local process, and the underlying inter processs communication (IPC) mechanism ensures that thesee same ssemantics apply when going across processes. 

The data sent through transact() is a Parcel, a generic buffer of data that also maintains some meta-data aboout its contents. The meta data is used to mamage IBinder object references in the buffere, so that those references can be maintained as the buffer moves across processes. This mechanism ensures that when an IBinder is written into a Parcel and sent to another process, if that other process sends a reference to that same IBinder back to the original process, then the orignial process will receive the same IBinder object back. These semantic all IBinder/Binder objects to be used as a unique identity(to serve as a token or for other purposes) that can be managed acrossp proceess.

The system maintains a pool of transaction threads in each process that it runs in. These threads are used to dipatch all IPCs coming in from other processes. For example, when an IPC is madefrom process A to process B, the calling thread in A blocks in transact9) as it sends the transaction to process B. The next available pool thread in B receives the inclming transaction, calls Binder.onTransact() on the target object, and replies with the result Parcel. Upon receiving its result the thread in process A returns  to allow its execution to conintue. In effect, other processes appear to use as additional threads that you did not create executing in your own process. 

The Bindiner system also supports recursion across processes. For example if process A performs a trasaction to process B, and process B while handling that transaction calls transact() on an IBinder that is implememtned in A, then the thread in A that is currently waiting for the original transaction to finish will take care of calling Binder.onTransact() on the object being called by B. This ensures that the recursion semantics when calling remote binder object are the same as when calling local objects. 

How to determine if a remote object is valid
- The transact() method will throw a RemoteException exception if you try to call  it on an IBInder whose process no longer exists
- The pingBinder method can be called, and will return false if the remote process no longer exists
- The linToDeath() method can be used to register a DeathRecipient with the IBinder, which will be called when its containgn process goews away. 

